# JavaScript and JQuery
## By Jon Duckett

#### Look anywhere on Social Media and this book will be there! With so many apparent owners, is it the holy trinity of JavaScript and JQuery learning? Or is it just a pretty cover with no substance?

First things first, let me give you a bit of background information with my running in with this book. Starting my web development journey on Instagram, I was drawn to this book pretty much straight away. The muted colours on the front and the matt black finish make this one of the most beautiful books I own. It is so photogenic, and people realise it to! The cover is identical to its brother/sister "HTML and CSS". I cannot speak for that book, as I do not currently own it, but what I can say as a pair they are everywhere on Instagram. I have to admit, for looks alone I was sold. I punched my paypal details into Amazon, and it was sitting on my desk the next day.

Right off the back, I could tell this book wasnt going to be a similar experience to the (albeit very few) programming books I have read prior to this one. The pages are colourful and thick, and there are as many pictures and diagrams as there is writing. It is undeniably stunning, and the colour and diagrams make everything so easily accessible. Its not intimidating, and I think that is incredibly valuable for someone who might just be starting out on their programming journey.

On the subject of not being intimidating, the book refers to programmers as a third party. This is quite a neat trick which I imagine is geared specifically towards the new programmer. For example _"Once you have created a variable, you can tell it what information you would like it to store for you. Programmers say that you assign a value to a variable"_. It sounds friendly and completely uncondescending. 

The book starts off with a nice little introduction section, showing the reader how and why you would want to use JavaScript in the browser. Obviously if you are at all familiar with the way the web works, this is possibly irrelevant and information you knew, but I like how this book completely starts from scratch and doesnt assume any prior knowledge at all. I found the section well written and it managed to keep my interest even though it was largely bits I already knew.

Out of the Introduction chapter and we move to the nitty gritty! The book introduces everything to do with JavaScript briefly in this secton and then goes into more detail on everything throughout the whole book. It covers absolutely everything you would need to know from the basic functions right through to AJAX and API's. One of my favourite features has to be the example programs it has throughout its pages. The example programs are generously commented, and you always feel you are on top of the steps the program takes. It touches upon some advanced techniques as well as the basic ones. I find myself constantly using it as a reference guide and I have at no point felt like I have outgrown it. 

Personally, I don't necessarily agree with the direction the book takes in regards to it introducing Objects and Methods before more simple techniques are touched upon. I don't personally see the benefit a new programmer would gain by understanding constructor/literal or dot notation to access objects and methods even before an if..else statement or a simple for loop is talked about and in my mind seems a slightly odd way of doing this. Yes this isn't a problem for someone who might have a grasp of these techniques beforehand, but one big flaw is the fact that the books aim is to be a friendly introduction to, blunty, some hard topics, and Object Oriented programming is not the best place to start. Its intimidating, and could put some people off!

For a book thats title is "Javascript and JQuery", the JQuery section an important part of the package. Regardless or not of whether you see JQuery as a necessary framework, it is undeniably an important part of modern web development, and is a good first framework to learn and understand. I would have liked to have seen a more extensive section for this topic, with some more examples, however the chapter is perfectly amicable. 



#### Overview
No doubt a fantastic resource for anyone looking at improving their JavaScript knowledge, or are looking to move to the next stage from the previous book. It is an expensive purchase (upon recent review it is £15 which actually isn't that much. I paid much more), but you undeniably get a top quality product for your money.

Is it all you need to learn how to use JavaScript effectively? I don't think so. Some might argue that this all comes down to your style of learning, however I find it impossible to learn all I need to through books alone. With the rise of tutorials, bootcamps and no end of lessons to teach programming online, that talk you through the process of a project that you might actually want to build (I'm looking at Colt Steele's Bootcamp, and also Wes Bos' #30daysofJavascript), this book can't equate to the effectiveness of this style of learning. I would like to see more tutorials to achieve actual results (like you find in SuperHi's fantastic "Learn to Code Now"), however this would take away from the referencing style nature of encyclopedia of JavaScript. That is a fair comparison actually.. this is an encyclopedia of web development goodness. 

Regardless though, is it a necessary purchase? I think so! I find myself reaching to it just as much as I see myself referencing Stack Overflow, and in that case it is invaluable. In some circumstances I find that referencing a book, where you are 100% sure the information is accurate, rather than relying on someones answer online is satisfying and reassuring. Plus it looks damn good on a coffee table, on your computer desk or posted on your latest story.

Purchase here --> https://www.amazon.co.uk/JavaScript-JQuery-Interactive-Front-End-Development/dp/1118531647/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1523257846&sr=8-1&keywords=javascript+and+jquery

